Hey everyone, welcome back to the
channel. Uh today we are going to be
focusing on one of the core concepts of
system design and that is sharding. So
we'll break down in the context of an
interview what is sharding, how do you
know what to shard by, how do you
distribute the data, what are the main
challenges that come up as a result of
sharding and how do interviewers
typically like to probe into these
challenges. And then we'll end really
concretely with how you should address
or what you should say uh when you bring
up sharding in an actual interview. So
for those of you unfamiliar, I'm Evan.
I'm a former meta staff engineer and the
current co-founder of hello
interview.com. Without further ado,
let's get into it. Let's start with a
simple example that's going to show why
sharding exists in the first place.
Basically, the motivation for why we
need to shard. And so you can imagine
that we just launched our app and our
app has a single let's say AWS RDS
Postgress instance, right? So a single
database and it's a big one. It has
roughly 70 terabytes of storage. It can
handle about 10,000 writes per second.
And in the early days of our app,
everything is super smooth. Traffic
grows, read volume grows, write volume
grows, but everything's all good. It can
be handled by what is a pretty
significantly sized database here. But
eventually, maybe inevitably, we outgrow
that database. And so maybe it's now
that we've grown to a point where we
need 20,000 writes per second,
significantly larger than that 10,000
writes per second limit. Or maybe it's
that our storage is approaching that 70
terabytes limit. Right? In either case,
the database is straining and the
queries are slowing down. Backups are
taking forever. It's clear that we've
hit some sort of a ceiling. And so what
do we do now? Well, the obvious first
instinct is what's called vertical
scaling. And it's to say, let's just
upgrade to a bigger machine, a bigger
database, bigger hardware. And to be
fair, this works. This works for a
while. And so AWS does offer even larger
machines. you can scale up to 140
terabytes of storage, something like
50,000 writes per second depending on
what your queries are. And it's worth
acknowledging this is a ton of
throughput. Um, most companies will
never ever hit this. But for the sake of
argument, let's say that our app
continues to grow. And so we're global
now. Traffic hasn't stopped. Even bigger
hardware isn't cutting it. And we've
saturated CPU, storage, IO, everything.
Our database is angry. It can no longer
handle the load. And so at this point,
the issue can't be solved by a bigger
database. Uh instead, it's that no
matter how big the database, we simply
can't keep up. And so that's when we
reach for what is called sharding. And
so sharding,
there you go. Sharding is the process of
splitting your data across multiple
machines so that no single database
holds everything. And so each shard is
its own standalone database.
Importantly, it has its own CPU, its own
memory, its own storage, its own
connection pool, and it stores just a
subset of the data such that together
the shards form the full data set. And
so we can now scale storage and read and
write throughput by simply adding more
shards. And if you start to grow, you
add a fourth shard, a fifth shard, a
sixth shard, etc. Now, importantly,
sharding solved our scaling issue.
That's great. Um, but it introduced new
problems like how do we choose how to
shard? How do we know which shard to
route our queries to? What happens if we
have a particularly hot shard? What
happens if one goes down and we need to
rebalance? Um, you have to deal with all
this new operational complexity that
comes from having multiple database
instances. And so these are the
trade-offs and the strategies that we're
going to explore throughout the rest of
this video. How do you shard? And then
how do you handle the challenges or
limitations that come from sharding? The
first thing that we need to decide is
how do we shard our data and that
naturally breaks down into two
questions. The first is what do we shard
by? This is going to be the field that
we use to group your data which we call
the shard key. And so for example, if
you shard by user ID that would be a
column in your data and then all data
for a given user will live on the same
shard. Okay. The second one here is how
do we distribute those values across the
shards? And so this is the strategy for
mapping a shard keys values to a given
machine to a given database. And so for
example, we might split user IDs into
ranges like we saw in the example above,
right? Where we split 0 to 10 million,
10 million to 20 million, 30 million to
40 million, etc. Or maybe we'll hash
them evenly across shards as we'll see a
little bit later on when we talk about
strategies. And so in simple terms,
in simple terms, the shard key is how we
group our data and the distribution
strategy is how we place those groups
onto shards. Okay? And so we're going to
start with the first question here,
which is choosing a shard key. Let's
start with that one of how do we decide
what our shard key could be in the first
place? And uh anytime you're going to
talk about sharding, maybe let me
actually take a step back. In a system
design interview, if you're going to
talk about sharding, then the first
thing you should do is mention what your
shard key is. And you want to be
explicit about this. What column are you
sharding on and why? And so a good shard
key has three properties. And we'll show
examples of these in just a moment. So
bear with me. But the first is what we
call high cardality. This is basically
that we want a field with lots of unique
values so that we can spread that data
across the shards instead of piling
everything onto a few shards. Right? So
basically the the the the high cardality
means that we can have a good random or
even distribution. And so that leads us
to the second point which is directly
even distribution and this is that those
values should naturally spread out so
that each shard has roughly the same
amount of data. Okay. And then the last
one here is query alignment. Our shard
key should match how we query our data.
Concrete example, if most of our queries
are let's get all posts for a given
user, then sharding by user ID keeps all
of that user data on one shard. And it
means that when we want to get all of a
user's posts, uh we only need to query
one database. We don't need to go query
all of the different shards, right? And
so then on the flip side, a bad shard
key of course has low cardality. It
creates uneven distribution and it
forces queries to hit many shards just
to answer something simple in many
cases. And so this is how you end up
with all of the problems that we'll talk
about in a moment like hotspots and and
slow cross shard queries, but we're
going to aim for good shard keys. Um
let's let's look at examples. I got some
examples down here for what could make a
good shard key. And so let's first
imagine in this top left one that we
have a popular social media app and the
most common operation is users visiting
another user's profile and loading all
of their posts. This is the example
we've been talking about. now throughout
the video. And so, as we've mentioned,
in this case, sharting by user ID is a
great choice because it has high
cardality. Every user has a unique ID.
So, we have tons of distinct values to
spread across the shards. It can be
evenly distributed. Users tend to arrive
in fairly uniform patterns over time.
So, no single shard is going to end up
with most of the users. And then lastly,
that query alignment. our main queries
to get all posts for a given user which
maps perfectly because it means we just
need to query one of these shards in
order to get a user's posts right for
the hot path. Another similar example
would be that we have an e-commerce
site. If we have an e-commerce site
where the most popular thing that users
are doing is retrieving information
about a single order both creating
orders, reviewing orders, checking
update statuses on orders, etc. Then
charting by order ID makes a lot of
sense, right? Right? For all the same
reasoning, high cardality, it's fairly
evenly distributed, and importantly, it
aligns with our query pattern. But let's
look at let's look at some examples of
bad shard keys. Maybe this will be even
more illustrative. And I said, imagine
that you sharted on the value is
premium, right? So in your user table,
some users are premium members, some are
not premium members. And that's a
boolean flag in your database. If you
were to shard on this, then this gives
you only two groups, premium users and
nonpremium users. And that's extremely
low cardality. you immediately cap
yourself to just two shards and once
they fill up you're kind of stuck,
right? There's nothing else to split
them on if you've chosen that as your
shard key. Another bad example which is
maybe less intuitive is in the case
where you shard by creation date. Um,
specifically if you shard by creation
date for an app in which most users are
querying the most recent data. And so
let's say it's our social media app
again and we've sharted by creation data
posts. So all the posts from 2023, 2024,
and 2025. Well, what's going to happen
here is that all of the traffic is going
to go towards shard 3 here because most
users are looking for the recent posts
and so we're going to end up with that
hot spot on shard 3. Right? So, this was
not evenly distributed appropriately.
Now that we've talked a bit about what
to shard by, let's move on to the second
point here, which is how do we
distribute those values across the
different shards? And so, there's a
couple strategies. We're going to talk
about three of them. And let's start
with what is the most simple though
suboptimal option which is called
rangebased sharding. And so this is the
example that we've been looking at thus
far because it's the most intuitive. And
with rangebased sharding we take the
shard key say the user ID in this
example and we just split it into simple
ranges. So shard one has all user IDs
from 0 to 10 million. Shard two has all
user ids from 10 million plus 1 to 20
million and so on. Right? You get the
picture. It's super intuitive. Now the
problem is that this can very easily
lead to uneven distribution or at least
one problem. So let's say that you have
your three shards. Your app is in its
early days. There's only a million users
right now. Then only the first shard has
real data and thus has real load. The
other two are sitting there empty.
Additionally, maybe more practically is
that if you were sharding by user ID,
all of your new users are ending up over
here, right? If you assume that user ids
are monotonically increasing, then all
of your new users are ending up in these
higher ranges and all of the queries,
writes and reads are coming to shard
three because most of the active users
on your site are new users, right?
Almost by definition. And so range
sharding can work. It's a simple
alternative or it's a simple option
especially if your data naturally falls
into these clean ranges and grows
steadily. Um, but you have to be really
intentional about splitting ranges
before things get too big and you end up
or else you'll end up with that that
that one shard taking all the heat as I
mentioned. So, this is a fine option.
Intuitively, it's a nice place to start,
but it's not what most things use in
production. And so, let's move on then
to what is actually used more often in
production, and that is hashbased. And
so, let me focus your attention over
here to the left before we look over at
what's going on in the right. Um, but
instead of using rangebased sharding,
the industry default is what's called
hashbased sharding. Here's how it works.
It's pretty simple. Instead of us just
assigning ranges, what we do is we take
a hash of the key, so whatever our shard
key was, like the user ID, and then we
mod it by the number of shards that we
have, and that will tell us which shard
that we should put uh this particular
row or set of data on. Uh, the hash
function basically scramles up the
input, right? randomizes it so that we
spread really evenly, perfectly evenly
even across, in our case these three
shards, right, the n shards. So that's a
really nice big win. We get solid even
distribution, which we talked about
being important earlier. Um, but there's
still some some major issues with this.
And the first is around rebalancing. And
so if you never ever need to add or
remove shards, then almost everything
has to move, right? Imagine that we
added a new shard here. Well, now this
mod has turned into mod 4 and almost
nothing mod 4 versus mod 3 is going to
land up on the same shard. So, tons of
data is going to have to move.
Everything's going to have to be
redistributed. It it's a it's a huge
reshuffleling of our data, which is a
total nightmare operationally, right?
And so, this is where consistent hashing
comes in. And you've probably heard the
term consistent hashing, but if not, we
have a full video on it. I'm going to
link it in the description. Check that
out. It's pretty short. It goes over
consistent hashing, but the short
version is that instead of using that
simple modulo, consistent hashing places
both the keys and the shards on this
virtual ring. And the way that it works
is that you hash, you put you go onto
the ring to wherever that hashed key
lands and then you just walk right until
you find that database. And so there's
some fancy techniques with this things
called virtual nodes. all of this which
is in that video which effectively
eliminates that giant reshuffleling
problem. Right? So the only thing to
know in the context of sharding is that
the industry standard is hash hashbased
sharding usually combined with
consistent hashing in order to make
scaling smooth. Now, in the context of
an interview specifically, um if you
say, "Hey, we're going to shard and
we're going to shard by user ID." Your
interviewer's default expectation is
that you're using hashbased sharding uh
with consistent hashing. In many cases,
you don't even have to say it.
Especially if you're senior plus, that's
the expectation. There's no reason to
even bring it up. If you are more
junior, mid-level, they might ask you,
"How is this sharding happening?" in
which case you can inform them about how
hashbased sharding and consistent
hashing actually works.
Um let's look at the last one here now
and this is something called
directorybased sharding. And so instead
of using a formula to decide where data
lives, directory sharding uses a lookup
table. And so for each record, say each
user, you store which shard they belong
to in this lookup table. And so you
simply on each read or write have to
first come here, find out which shard
they belong to, and then go to the right
shard specifically. And so the big
advantage here is flexibility. If one
user suddenly becomes super popular and
starts generating a ton of traffic, you
can move them onto their own shard
easily by just updating this mapping. If
shards start to get overloaded, you can
redistribute with this mapping. um you
can basically implement all of this
custom sharding logic by being explicit
about which users or which shard key
matches to each shard respectively. But
the downside is pretty obvious and you
guys might be thinking this as you're
hearing me talk through this and that's
that every single request now has extra
latency. It needs to first look up here
into the the directory and then actually
query the shard as opposed to just one
query to the shard. And so that's two
requests now for every single lookup,
which is going to add a bunch of extra
latency. And it also, maybe even more
importantly, is going to create a single
point of failure where if this directory
goes down, well then we're pretty
screwed until we pull this back up
because we have no idea where all of our
data exists on each of these shards,
right? So directory based sharding has
its place. It's great when you
absolutely need that maximum flexibility
and you can inform you can uh excuse me,
you can afford this extra hop, but very
important in a system design interview,
it's almost never the right answer. And
so this introduces that single point of
failure. It adds the extra latency from
the two hops, and it's just going to
invite a bunch of follow-up questions
that might derail your whole interview.
Right? So my suggestion to you is in
practice, especially in interviews, just
default to your hashbased sharding with
consistent hashing. Know that the others
exist in case you need them,
particularly in order to get out of um,
you know, some of the challenges, which
we'll talk about in a moment. But this
one's your default. It's your bread and
butter and it's the one that you should
know best.
Really quick before we continue, let me
tell you a little bit about the most
popular feature on hello.com, guided
practice. It's an interactive tool that
lets you practice system design
interviews step by step using that hello
interview delivery framework. You're
going to walk through everything from
the non-functional requirements to the
core entities API routes all the way
through to your highle design and deep
dives drawing on the whiteboard and
narrating your response all while
getting real-time feedback on what
you're doing well and where you can
improve by a model that Stephan and I
have spent hundreds of hours tuning.
We've expanded the library to 25 of the
most common system design interview
questions now and we're constantly
adding more. So candidates absolutely
love this feature. I think you will too.
Check it out at hello.com. Link will be
in the description. All right. Now that
we know all about how to shard, let's
talk about the challenges that come
along with sharding because frankly
these are the follow-up interview
questions that your interviewers are
going to throw at you and that you
obviously want to be ready for. And so
the first and the most common problem is
around hotspots or load imbalance. So,
let's look at that one first. Um, even
with a good shard key, some shards can
end up taking on way more traffic than
others. Let's let's give the classic
example of what's called the celebrity
problem. And so, let's say we sharded by
user ID, and Messi happens to land on
shard one, of course, Leon Messi, the
the famous soccer player. And so,
anytime someone views his profile or
comments on his posts or likes something
of his or sends him a message, all of
that traffic is going to shard one. Now
suddenly shard one is orders of
magnitude larger in its right throughput
than the other shards, right? Because
messy is there. And so most other ones
sit there cold where this one got really
really hot. And so what do we do? Well,
the first solution is what's called a a
compound shard key. You guys have seen
me use this in other videos. And it's
instead of sharding purely based on user
ID, you add some additional suffix or
some piece of data before hashing. So
whereas before
it might have looked like this, right?
In order to get that key, now it can be
user ID plus n where maybe n is a number
of the number of shards that you want to
distribute this over. Or if you want to
further distribute by time, you could do
something like this, right? You can add
another column here. But the point being
is that by adding something else uh to
the input of the hash function, we're
going to further distribute in this case
Messi's posts across multiple shards,
right? And then the second solution that
we can do is that you can have, and this
one's fairly popular as well, a
dedicated celebrity shard. And so this
is where you can detect the hightraic
users and move them into their own
specific shard. And so maybe you end up
with a shard for here. This is the
celebrity shard. Maybe it's even bigger,
like it has special hardware. And now we
use that directory based lookup
to say, hey, if you're a celebrity, now
the thing's a little big, but you guys
get my point, right? Let's first look
here. If you're a celebrity, well, then
I'm going to route you to the celebrity
shard. Otherwise, we're going to do the
uh hash base with consistent hashing,
and you're going to go to your your
normal shard, right? And so, most
systems won't end up needing this. Um,
but if your platform has extreme
outliers like a social media app does in
this case with Messi, then it's a really
powerful tool, right? You either want to
append here with compound shard keys or
have a dedicated shard for celebrities.
Now, the next most common issue that you
run into is something called cross shard
operations. And so this happens when
your data lives on multiple machines. So
that any query that needs information
from more than one shard suddenly
becomes expensive because instead of
hitting a single shard, you need to wait
or you need to fan out and query in some
cases many or even all of the shards and
then wait and aggregate them and return
that back to the user, right? And so
this usually happens when your query
doesn't align with your shard key, which
we talked about earlier. And so if we
were to shard users by user ID in the
example we keep giving, uh then a
request like get user 123's profile is
super easy. That's going to hit one
shard. it's going to be fast and it's
going to be quick. But if the query was
like, give me the top 10 most popular
posts across the whole platform. Well,
now we have to go get the most popular
parts from uh posts from each shard,
bring them into memory, right? Aggregate
all 30 of those, rank them, and then
return the top 10. And you can see how
obviously that's much more expensive.
And now the reality is that you can't
eliminate cross shard queries
completely. It's it's unfeasible. But
the first line of defense is of course
choosing a good shard key that aligns
with your most common queries so that
you don't have them happen that often.
But even with a perfect shard key, uh
you'll still have these global queries
when you have something like top posts
in the example that we've shown here. So
so what can you do? Well, the first and
maybe most common solution is that you
can cache the results of these expensive
crossshard queries. So if I had some
cash here, maybe something like Reddus,
then yes, the first time a user asks for
the most popular 10 posts, it's going to
be expensive. We're going to do that
scatter gather. We're going to query all
of the different shards, we're going to
aggregate, but then we're just going to
cache it. And so the next time they ask,
we're going to be able to just hit the
cache, right? So you get one expensive
one and then everything else hits the
cache. Maybe we put an expiration on
this for just like 5 minutes. And this
of course has us playing with that
compromise where we are trading latency
for consistency or the staleness of our
data because now what's going to happen
is that users who query us in 4 minutes
later are actually going to going to get
the top 10 posts from 4 minutes ago not
from right now but in most cases feeds
leaderboards trending pages etc. That's
a worthwhile trade-off. Uh and so it's
one that we make. Another option is that
you can denormalize your data so that
related information lives together. And
so denormalization of course is the
process of repeating data uh such that
you're making your queries quicker at
the expense of multiple writes. And so
let's say there is some query for which
you need to go to shard one and shard
two but it's something that you're doing
a lot. And so what you could do is you
could take the data from shard 2 and
also put it alongside that table in
shard one where you're uh you know
constantly making this query. Now you
only need to hit shard one and you get
the data but that data lives on both
shard one and shard two. So now on
writes you have to write it in two
places. And so this is another trade-off
of course right now you are trading
making rights more complex but making
reads stay within a single shard. And
so, you know, classic scaling trade-off.
Pay a little extra on on rights, but
make reads faster and cheaper. It all it
all depends on your design and your
requirements whether or not this is
right. But the main takeaway for you in
an interview is if you find yourself
constantly querying across all shards
for a common use case. That's a signal
that either e most importantly or e that
either a most importantly you chose the
wrong shard key. So, wrong shard key.
two that you should cache or premputee
like we showed in that example or three
you should denormalize your data in
order to keep it together. Right? So
cross shard queries should be the
exception. They shouldn't be the norm.
And then last up in terms of the main
problems that come up is consistency.
And so when all data lives on a single
database then transactions database
transactions they're super easy. Let's
let's kind of root this in an example.
The classic banking example, you have
Bob who has a banking account with $10
and Alice who has a banking account with
$10. And Bob wants to send $5 to Alice,
right? Well, in a traditional relational
database, this is one atomic
transaction. And you can see it here.
This is what the database transaction
would look like. We remove $5 from Bob.
We add $5 to Alice. And the atomic
nature of this transaction makes sure
that both of these commands succeed or
neither of them succeed. Right? So we
never end up in an inconsistent state.
But once Bob and Alice live on different
shards, as is the case here, shard one
versus shard three, then things start to
get messy because and not the same messy
as as earlier, right? They start to get
messy uh in the bad way. Uh and that's
because now these updates can't happen
in one atomic operation. And so what
happens if we do this deduction of Bob,
but then this increase to Alice fails or
even the other way around, right? we end
up in that inconsistent state which is
bad. And so the textbook solution which
you've probably heard a handful of times
is something called two-phased commit
oftentimes denoted as 2PC like that. Uh
and basically there's a central
coordinator and that central coordinator
first asks all shards, hey are you guys
ready to do this transaction and then it
waits for everyone to say yes before
telling them all okay now it's time that
you can commit. Um, and this ensures the
consistency and it sounds great in
theory. In practice, two-phase commit is
actually pretty slow and fragile. Uh,
cuz if any shard or coordinator goes
down in the middle of it, then the whole
thing can get stuck and you end up in
this lock which is which is super tough
to get out of. And that's why most
production systems actually try to avoid
2PC to some extent. And so what can you
do instead? Well, option one for fear of
of being annoying here would be well try
to avoid cross charge transactions,
right? in your system design interview
to the extent that you can if you have a
transaction try to make sure that all
that data is on the single database um
that should be your your golden rule to
try to follow. Now it's not always
achievable as is evidence with our
example here. Alice and Bob exist on
different shards and there's no way that
we could guarantee that the two people
who are involved in in in our bank
transaction exist on the same shard,
right? And so another option is
something called the saga pattern.
Another thing you might have heard the
buzz term for. And so this works
basically using a sequence of smaller
operations.
Each action has what's called a
compensating action that can be run in
case things fail. And so I'm not going
to get into too much detail here. I'm
going to leave going deep in saga
patterns. We actually have a scaling
rights write up which I'll put in the
description that you can read more of.
But the basics is this. Step one, deduct
five from Bob on shard two or on shard
three, excuse me. Step two, add five
bucks to Alice on shard one. And then if
step two fails, we don't magically roll
everything back. Instead, we run what is
that compensating action for step two,
which I had mentioned, which is that
we're going to refund Bob his $5. And
so, it's manual, but ensures that we
don't end up in a broken state because
it says each action we take has a
opposite compensating reaction such that
if anything fails, we'll run that
compensating um action in order to get
back to the state that we want it to be
in. So, uh, a little hard to describe in
brief, but look up Saga pattern on your
own or read that scaling rates breakdown
because I don't want to go into too much
detail here. But the mental model that
you should be thinking of here when it
comes to maintaining consistency is um,
basically first try to avoid cross shard
transactions in the first place. If you
do have them, the saga pattern is really
useful. It's such that instead of one
big transaction, you chain smaller steps
together, each of which have a
corresponding undo action associated
with them. All right, lastly before we
sign off and maybe the most important
thing is let's talk about how sharding
comes up in system design interviews.
And so you're going to bring up sharding
in your interview during your deep dives
typically towards the end of the
interview when you're satisfying a
non-functional requirement about
scaling. So, as you're thinking about
scaling, you're going to head over to
your database and you're going to think,
hm, from the perspective of both
storage, write throughput, and in some
cases, read throughput, do I reach any
of the capacity limits, and can I
justify that I do? If yes, I need to
determine that I can sharp. And so, let
me show you what that looks like, right?
Specifically, starting with storage, I
could say something like, well, we have
500 million users with 5 kilobytes of
data each, and so that's 2.5 tab of
data. A single Postgress instance is
going to handle that. So we don't need
to shard. But if we ended up growing 10
or 100x, then we would shard. Okay.
Write throughput. We're expecting about
50,000 writes per second during peak. A
single database would struggle with this
right load. So we should probably shard.
Read throughput. Similarly, even with
read replicas, if we were serving a 100
million daily active users making
multiple queries each, we'll need to
distribute this real load across shards.
Probably do some math about how many
read queries that would end up being and
prove that that it exceeds any
thresholds. Now, I put this in red
because this is important, and you saw
this with the first example. You don't
always need to shard. In many of the
system design interviews that I'm in,
it's the reflexive nature of most
candidates. They say, "Oh, I need to
shard, and I'm going to shred by this."
Um, but that's wrong. Like, modern
hardware goes a really far way. You saw
in our our intro example, you had a
Postgress database with 140 terabytes of
storage. That's a ton, right? Uh 50,000
writes per second. And so it's sometimes
the case in these interviews where it's
actually can be really impressive to
show your interview actually based on
this math I don't need to shard right
500 million users 5 kilobytes of data
that's only 2.5 terabytes of data and
we're going to have limited throughput
so no need to sharp but in the case
where you do prove that sharding is
necessary then what do you say? Well you
follow these really simple four steps.
The first thing that you're going to do
is you're going to propose a shard key
based on your access pattern. And so,
for example, for this social media app,
most queries are user centric. When
someone loads their feeds, we're
querying for all of their posts, their
followers, and their likes. And that's
all scoped to a single user. So, I'm
going to shred by user ID. Easy. The
second one, you're going to choose your
distribution strategy, right? And so,
this is where you could say, I'd use
hashbased sharding with consistent
hashing to hash the user ID, distribute
users evenly across the shards. Now, as
I mentioned earlier, you might be able
to skip two. This is kind of the
default. This is what your interviewer
is expecting you mean when you say
you're going to shred by user ID. But
for the more junior roles, junior and
mid-level, it might be worth saying. The
third thing that you're going to do is
you're going to call off call out those
trade-offs. And so you might say the
trade-off is that global queries are
going to become more expensive. If we
need trending posts across all users,
then we'll have to query all the shards
and aggregate the results. Um, but you
know, we could handle this by caching
trending content, precomputing it with a
background job, etc. Right? This is
where you'll talk about those trade-offs
we discussed. And then the fourth is you
want to address how you'll handle that
growth. And so you know we're going to
start with 10 shards which gives us room
for significant growth but consistent
hashing is going to make it easier for
us to add shards later and reshard the
data if we need to and and we end up
needing more capacity. Right? So that's
the four steps that you want to do. This
conversation should be simple. It should
flow naturally and most importantly it
should be justified based on the numbers
that you calculate either on storage
right or read throughput.
Awesome. Um, okay. I hope that this was
useful to you all. I know this was just
a quick hit on sharding. We have the
written write up that I suggest you go
read. It has a little bit more detail,
but this is a foundational core concept
to system design that you should know
for your interviews. Go ahead and leave
some questions, comments, anything I got
wrong, I'll be in the comments
responding to them. Uh, check out the
website helloview.com. Lots more content
just like this. Check out the YouTube
channel. Plenty more videos and more on
the way. So, thank you all for watching.
Best of luck with the upcoming
interviews and I'll see you all soon.